all right welcome everybody to the
hopping booth we're so excited to keep
uh
presenting you the best content possible
here at
our booth at imax 2021
uh i'm so excited today to have uh a
guest from uh one of my favorite events
um i have to come clean you know
i'm a geek by nature and you know
thanks for having me um it's great to be
here at coffin at your booth so this is
fun um it's good to be back in person
i'm amelia barra i'm svp engineer in the
faster we're the world's largest b2b and
fast cloud community we just had an
in-person event after a long last so i'm
sure we'll talk about it more oh my god
i can't wait um and apologies to my
personal audience here if i'm looking at
amelia
and hi to everybody online
yeah we love you um so you know
obviously software is an institution
when it gets to tech events
specifically as everybody uh in the past
18 months nothing new here you embrace
digital you embrace virtual you did your
favorite way let's start with that like
how was your pivot i'll do the playhouse
for you
well you know it's interesting there was
no road map right when the pandemic
first hit we we weren't sure what to do
we just knew we had to try and get our
community together right content
community has always been a faster score
so that was at the front of our goal and
the front of our mind is like okay this
this crazy thing is happening to
everybody it's us it's our community
it's everybody out in the south and tech
and clouds so what can we do so you know
we were five days away from loden for
our fast radio 2020 event when we got
the shelter at home order in san
francisco santa clara county
so as you can imagine we had all these
speakers lined up
we're like well i guess we'll just tell
the videos of like black and box and
pager duty not to come because they
can't come
uh so we emailed them a week later we're
like hey
but this block down thing might be last
we don't know how long it's going to
last right we didn't know at the
beginning of scovid we weren't sure so
we just emailed them all we're like hey
would you come do
a thistle event with us we've never we
hadn't typically done big digital events
we've historically done in-person some
small webinars right so that was kind of
like at the
start of it it was kind of the first of
the time at the time
and we we had all of our speakers that
were just so
so ready to share with community through
this test time share their learning sure
their playbooks a lot of them you know
related back to the market crash back in
2006 so we were talking about like black
sheep events with the anchor and it
the community really came together i
think we had like 10 000 people sign up
in a week
and it was in state we didn't think that
was going to be the volume right we're
like well we've got our speakers they're
all at home they seem fine getting on a
zoom like let's just create some content
for our community and like whoever shows
up is awesome and that way all of our
ticket holders and our community can
come
so they did and it was just a crazy good
response but we kind of took it from
there and we kept doing digital and
we've done more there on like the
content the community the networking
side and then yeah we were just waiting
and doing a lot of research and a lot of
plans that got eventually thrown out the
window until we could come back to in
person well uh the the
the way we position these tests this one
specifically is called brainchild yeah
and the objective of it is to borrow
your brain to help other players
situation we deal with every day and the
situation right now is i want to go back
to in person
i remember uh probably march 2020 the
announcement week by week we were first
going to implement measures yes uh and
then it didn't happen i actually had to
cancel like everybody else uh and then i
saw again uh in the build-off of your
latest event that obviously things were
still on shore uh with things out there
so
take us through the come back to in
person
what was your thinking how did it happen
how can we be maintained
i guess during this stressful moment
yeah so since we're talking to us right
it was a it was definitely a long road
um there were a lot of plans we ended up
scrapping we knew first and foremost
like i think it's we're in an
interesting time i think we're industry
not only coming back to events but
everything that just happened with
astroworld i know it's not necessarily
like b2b or sas but i think it's
interesting because a lot of people now
are coming out and saying like who is
who is the burden of terror i think if
you take that as the subject of like
who's the burden of care on for health
and safety as an organizer
whether it's you know a concert your own
user conference whatever it may be
who's the burden of safety on for
security like all
over testing like who should have to do
all this and so as
event hosts and organizers of a
community event we always put our
community first and we the moment we
started planning i know jason rco and
founder was very much like we have to
make sure our community not only feels
safe but comfortable and that they want
to come back so day one i started
looking for health and safety vendors we
started looking at venues that were both
indoor outdoor because we we knew that
some of the early research was that you
know outdoor was lesser for the spread
it was safer it was more comfortable so
even 18 months ago we were like we
probably have to move annually outside
which is our biggest event we're like
we're always in convention centers like
this how many people do you ask for
um well typically we have 10 000. this
year we had five because our
international folks couldn't come like
the band just got lifted so we were
a couple months ago so yeah typically
five thousand so when you think about
putting all those people in a room like
we we wanted to have health and safety
first we knew that we had to
work not only more closely with thinking
outside the box of you know let's find
an outdoor venue okay we found one
how do you build booths like this
outside how do you run tower do you have
to get tempting we had to do all these
things that we had never previously done
as organizers and so
we figured out how to do it right we've
made some mistakes that we fixed on site
there's always going to be learnings
when you're trying something new
but our what we saw at this event is
like the community really responded to
it like we kind of became adaptive we
were like it's going to be like
coachella or it's going to be like
you know your favorite tech festival
just outside the sky
and we weren't sure we're like i don't
know if people are going outside like
people are used to being in conventions
so it was kind of a risk but we knew at
the end of the day
it would be the right call because it
would be safe for our community folks
were comfortable they didn't have to
wear a mask unless they were inside we
did rapid testing for all of our
attendees we had to be back we did that
scene checks so we did all these things
um but there wasn't a blueprint right so
we kind of we just put our community at
the front and we said we're gonna do
whatever it takes to make sure we can
all safely get together that we have
rapid tests available that we have
temperature scans and we have mass that
we put we built stages outside we built
foods outside we ran power there was no
white there's no wi-fi in a parking lot
like they don't even start to think
about
there's a lot of logistics that went
into it so that was a big part of it was
like
getting the logistics right um for
moving something outside like that to be
comfortable and also managing people's
expectations and our communications
right we're like this is outside like
let's embrace it with all of our
sponsors
let me backtrack a second here because i
mean your community for those that we
don't know we're talking about the staff
community the top of the south of the
tech community
to deal with right
you made some key decisions here right
uh stuff like implementing vaccine uh uh
checks and uh rapid testing uh you put
some
interesting signage at the door that you
can actually a positive means for uh the
stroke can you walk us through the
thinking behind it was it dictated just
by the audience needs obviously being
safe or was it also i don't know
insurance you were thinking about and
like complications that could have come
out of not thinking that way yeah so
here's the almost scary part for event
organizers right because i know a lot of
those listening right now in august or
like that organizers because we're at an
event conference like
there's no one blueprint that people are
gonna tell you to follow there's no one
playbook and all the rules are different
so we had our events in san mateo county
well the rules in san mateo county are
different from even san francisco city
like
rules and regulations but what you can
do in one county you can't do another so
for us it was a little confusing because
we're like okay we gotta find somebody
at the city with our venue who can tell
us what's going on because the rules
keep changing and then they kept
changing right it's like as kobet had
waves that was like some of those will
come back some would decline and then
like you know there's less masking
there's more masking so
it's hard to keep up with that change
for an event at our scale
so we
between jason and myself and our events
team we just laid out a set of rules
right we're like we're gonna follow
these these are gonna be
our
our key testaments right that we're not
gonna we're not gonna change it no
matter what because other factors can
change but at least if these are our
rules like everything around it can kind
of fluctuate but we know that we'll
deliver on this so we always said at the
very beginning like we're going to do
vaccine checks we will find out a way to
do it so we have a health and safety
partner literally check mandalas pets
the 6000 people who registered like
vaccine cars right like that takes time
and money
we did we found people who could do
temperature checks that were passive so
that you know there's not people like
scamming you we found ways to do like
tasks of bad spanning so we did all
these things and we said like we're
gonna stick to these we're gonna put
them all over the website we're going to
tell everybody who's coming so that you
know if you're coming to this event
you have to not only meet these health
and safety requirements but like you can
feel comfortable when you do get here
because everybody else is in the same
boat right like everyone else has been
vaccinated everybody else has just done
a rapid test nobody has a fever so
that's what we stuck to and as they
fluctuated in san mateo county like
there was sun masking there wasn't and
then by the time of our event
there was some social justice saying
rules but then there wasn't right so
it's like how do you keep up with all
that you can't let me just tell you you
can't it changes too much so you just
have to figure out your cornerstone of
what makes sense for my event attendees
what makes sense for us as the
organizers and stick to it because
everything else could change but at
least if you have that then it doesn't
have to keep changing right so if you
can't keep up all that huge annual life
unbelievable
and congrats for doing that and making
it happen like okay so you mentioned
that obviously the event wasn't running
at 100 capacitance compared to previous
years right
did you do anything uh and i want to
introduce you the big h ward hybrid did
you do anything to
cater for those that couldn't be there
yeah so we did we we did we live
streamed
all of our seasons which we had never
previously done we've done a little bit
of live stream in like past years like
2017 2018 it's just the main stage right
just some of the smaller things
we decided going into this year hey half
our audience can't come we still have
this great content that people want to
watch so we did a completely free
component that was all digital kind of
perpendicular
rather than hybrid because they didn't
really overlap too much so i call them
more perpendicular but
um we we did that so that people could
still watch content yeah that was the
first time we did that which was
interesting
on the day one we had like we started
the first whole day as justice roy
we have a lot of people signed up who
can't come we can't be here they just
want to watch visually we're on site
they're like what's this new content
from
on-site live that's like you know
these personal being set up whatever
well as an organizer that was super
hectic
we were like oh why didn't we do this
i'm like oh okay we've always did it
because we wanted to like serve our
digital audience as a distinct audience
right we wanted to make sure they had
content that you couldn't watch and it
was the speakers just dialed in to be
assumed they weren't happy as uh events
like it's just our teams managing and
like our streaming team managing it so
that was interesting so that was the
first time we did that uh and people
seemed to like that because they could
watch it in real time whereas typically
it takes a while for us to get our
sessions out because there's so much
context can you imagine so we've thought
so far about the things we've done yeah
let's look at um analyzing them and like
give a bug to them
will you keep on doing it or will you
change something and like kind of uh
drawing conclusions i guess sure outdoor
event
oh we're doing that are you doing again
i don't want to go listen
i would have never thought and i don't
think jason would have either
i don't ever think pre-code
we would have ever thought to move our
conference outside i mentioned all the
infrastructure things we had to do
crazy crazy time money budget like just
crazy right like we would have never
done that if we hadn't had a push from
our community to find a way to safely
host an event like people were like we
want to get back in person there's a lot
of reasons why faster exists for
training for playbook a lot of people
bring their teams to sastra and that's
like their big team meetup so
we we knew we had to fill this need and
help people get there so that's why we
did the safest event possible and
i was worried honestly i was like i
don't know if people are gonna like you
i'm building a booth outside the
sponsors might hate it like they were in
the sun for part of the day right
i'm like bring sunglasses
but they all loved it like they loved
being outside for three days i was
blessed with good weather so like it all
works out for the best so we're already
planning to do outside more outside next
year like yeah even bigger outside with
some inside because some people did use
our inside spaces you know if you want
to go take a call whatever it is so yeah
outdoor events i love them great um so
hopefully we're not going to need it
anymore should we need it
vaccination
testing are you going to keep on doing
that yeah we're going to keep on doing
it i think one thing that's interesting
with our health and safety team who i
still talk to
they work with a lot of events they work
with nhs um
and they're of the impression that
kovid's some
form of covet will linger for the next
few years right it's like as much as i
think we feel a little bit when we go to
events like these or when we go to
events like faster that that kobe's a
little bit over like it's still
lingering right we're getting into the
fall time with blue season two like
and now people are starting to get their
boosters i think it's just something you
have to plan for
because if you don't write it it's a
little bit again things can keep
changing around you like i said so it's
like for us we plan on having still like
vaccine requirements and uploads and
that'll that also has gotten easier
thankfully right
we're working on like doing more hybrid
year-round networking because that's
what our community really wanted after
this in-person event we did they were
like this is awesome we still want to do
more like for some people who couldn't
be there right um or for teams that are
hybrids so interesting
so hybrid yeah synchronous hybrid is
this still happening will it still be
the case or
uh are you just going to focus on your
person and yourself
no judgment no no i was like
well you might be a little bit biased at
the top and yeah
no but i think for the industry right
it's an interesting time because live
events like this are starting to come
back events like ours where we did it
indoor outdoor just came back and was
held
successfully right so it can be done
festivals are starting to come back for
next year right coachella's back next
year like i'm excited to go so
i think as
as organizers
we should plan on it being around
because
people have adjusted to this now right
like the way we have to adjust to the
pandemic and finding way to do our event
people have adjusted to digital work all
of two pastors distributor now we used
to all be in san francisco now we're all
over the place i can't even tell you
where everyone is right not in the same
time zone anymore so
um i think it's something where we have
to embrace it but the best parts of it
right and i think for us
it needs they both need distinct
attention so it's like your digital
component if you're gonna do something
that's digital
focus on that or have an owner for that
if you're doing something in person have
an owner for them where they meet you
need an owner for that too right it's
like where do those two meet in the
middle and that's how we define hybrid
that's how we think about hybrid is like
where does the digital world interface
with the physical world and how can you
make sure that like they both still have
a great experience because if you try
and do like half of one and a little bit
of the other neither of them are good
yeah exactly yeah
and you know we're uh often we think
that in general like there's no
the concept of planning events has never
been more fluid
than it is right now there's no the
future is hybrid the features first so
the future is in person the future is
whatever you want to do for your
audience exactly
also i guess in terms of uh
the future like but before i move to
that uh one more question
what is your biggest learning from
surrounding virtual events during this
hiatus that you applied to
in person did you change anything and
how you schedule the session
that's a great question i love this
question for the great
press love it um we actually learned a
lot about our audience and our community
through the virtual and the digital
event so we did about a dozen of them
before in person events and we saw
what we what we believe kind of in our
gut was reflected in the data and then
we learned a lot of things like
we added a lot of round tables we added
a lot of like small group questions
because a lot of people came through our
digital events were really great
like-minded people in our community who
should be
risen up to like a speaker level right
so we touched some of those attendees we
made them speakers at an annual so that
was super helpful that's where we like
benefited from digital into in person
a lot of people when we did digital
sessions
we learned about different content
formulas right like how to who our team
has gotten like really good at making a
capture title so that people sign up for
the session and then go to it like
we figured out that like you know how
how many is the right amount of slides
i'm like well it depends on how long the
presentation is we figured out the right
presentation length is 20 minutes long
zoom like we've done twelve of these
i'll tell you right now it's 20 minutes
yeah so we figured out a lot of these
packs right of like how much q a is too
much where do we do
some q and a from not so we took all
these learnings from doing i don't know
how many digital sessions we sold events
probably 300
um and we used that to impact our
in-person events by changing the format
of the content between the speaker times
um we made everybody bring data where
they could
everybody has to have slides it's one
thing we learned from digital like if
you just a fireside chat with homework
on visual right
it's hard what we're doing here works
since you've got faces in front of you
if we would just do this like two boxes
on this room it's i mean i love zoom but
it's harder right like you're looking to
disengage okay you can say you don't
love it as well
you know things happen on meetings right
in the digital world so
we took all that and we're like okay
let's bring that to our in-person event
which change we taste the time the day
that we normally do our sections so
we just took it as a data point right
we're like okay we've got all this data
for our house and first invest but now
we have even more data from 300 digital
events so we took all that and we
injected it in we moved things around we
changed some of the five of the stages
based on it and so
a lot quite a lot
almost another podcast episode here
for this
let me ask you uh did you see any
different reaction in the in-person
no i think what we learned much like
here is you know people were really
ready to go back it ended up being we
didn't plan for this but faster ended up
being the first largest in-person event
that was back in the bay area i'm like
that's not something you're like
let me put this on a whiteboard
somewhere largest in-person san
francisco event right i'm like maybe
somewhere in somebody's office but on
ours like we're like health and safety
fast jacks make sure people are happy
um part like adjustable dogs you know
like very different white boards so and
it has it ended up being the biggest one
um
but it's not something that i think you
can set out to do
um
and i and i think so many people told us
that they brought their teams like a lot
of people who had come as individual
founders like brought their entire teams
a lot of people that was their first
time they had met people on their teams
that they had hired remotely during the
pandemics so it was and a lot of people
saw people that they you know they're
sort of friends with it was like their
first student buddies with so
that was such a unique moment
and i don't think it's going to last
right because as in person events are
coming back there's going to be more and
more moments for people to meet but i
don't know that people want to travel as
much either way it's this weird
conundrum where like people want to go
back in person they want to see their
friends that they've missed but you're
also still getting on an airplane and
like i think people are
easily fatigued by events like this too
so there's a lot of uh 30 seconds
can you tell us what was written on the
sign that you put at the entrance uh you
know faster because that was quite the
moment
we did it went viral again we did not
plan for it it said please do not enter
if you have symptoms of covenant racism
or homophobia yeah i love it and with
that i want to thank amelia bharara for
being with us it's been a pleasure to
have you thank you